
[Congressional Record Volume 160, Number 37 (Wednesday, March 5, 2014)]
[Extensions of Remarks]
[Page E304]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Printing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]




  RECOGNIZING MERNI FITZGERALD ON THE OCCASION OF HER RETIREMENT FROM 
                             FAIRFAX COUNTY

                                 ______
                                 

                        HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY

                              of virginia

                    in the house of representatives

                        Wednesday, March 5, 2014

  Mr. CONNOLLY. Mr. Speaker, I rise to recognize and commend Merni 
Fitzgerald on the occasion of her retirement after a long and 
distinguished career in public service for the residents of Fairfax 
County, Virginia. For the past 13 years, Merni has been the director of 
the Office of Public Affairs, serving as the ``voice of Fairfax 
County.'' Prior to that, she spent 15 years as the public information 
officer for the Fairfax County Park Authority.
   Throughout her career, Merni dedicated herself to keeping Fairfax 
citizens well informed about the great work of their local government, 
while promoting engagement in our community. In her role as Director of 
Public Affairs, she managed external and internal communications for 
the largest county government in the Commonwealth of Virginia and the 
National Capital Region. She and her staff provided communications 
strategy and services for more than 40 county agencies and customer 
service to residents and visitors.
   From routine communications about Board of Supervisors meetings to 
emergency alerts, Merni ensured Fairfax remained in constant contact 
with its constituents, and she was instrumental in pushing the County 
onto social media to foster more opportunities for two-way 
communications. Whether she was sharing news and information about a 
notable accomplishment or a natural disaster, Merni was a calm, 
soothing, and informative voice for the County.
   Well-respected by her peers, Merni chaired the Northern Virginia 
communicators group and a similar committee at the Metropolitan 
Washington Council of Governments, which encompasses 21 jurisdictions 
in Virginia, Maryland and the District of Columbia. In that role, she 
coordinated communications for the regional Emergency Preparedness 
Council, where we worked together for a number of years.
   Prior to her current position, Merni served two terms on the Falls 
Church City Council. She also served as Chairman of the Northern 
Virginia Regional Commission. Her keen political sense, expert 
communications skills, and firm grasp of the news business has earned 
her the trust of the elected leadership throughout the region. She was 
recognized as the Virginia Communicator of the Year in 2000, and in 
2007 she was recognized as one of PR News magazine's PR Professionals 
of the Year for her ``untiring service to the community and the 
media.''
   I can certainly attest to that. I had the distinct pleasure of 
working with Merni during my 14 years of service on the Fairfax County 
Board of Supervisors. She was a trusted member of our leadership team 
and helped the county manage numerous crises including: the tragic 
events of 9/11, which occurred shortly after her appointment as 
director of public affairs; local anthrax attacks, during which the 
government center became a screening facility and medical distribution 
center; the 2002 Washington sniper shootings; Hurricane Isabel in 2003, 
which damaged multiple roads and properties across the county and 
resulted in the loss of drinking water for most residents for several 
days; the shooting of two police officers outside the Sully District 
Station in 2006; a dustup over local soup kitchens caused by an over-
zealous bureaucracy; the recent record snow storms, which literally 
shutdown the region for days; and an earthquake in 2011. Interspersed 
through those events, she coordinated public information about annual 
multi-million dollar bond referendums and countless Board 
``presentations.''
   Most people probably don't know Merni is a published author. Earlier 
in her career, Merni was an assistant to the Press Officer at the Peace 
Corps, an agency close to my heart given my international relations 
background and seat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee. During her 
time with the Corps, Merni authored two books for school-age children: 
one commemorating the Peace Corps' 25th Anniversary and another on the 
role of Voice of America radio programming in U.S. efforts overseas.
   As Merni begins this new chapter in her life, I want to extend my 
warmest regards to her and her family. I hope she is able to find a 
suitable new home for the growing collection of nutcrackers that adorn 
her office at the Government Center, and I have no doubt she will find 
a way to continue making contributions to our community even in 
retirement.
   Mr. Speaker, Merni Fitzgerald's commitment to public service has set 
an example that will benefit our community for generations to come. Her 
accomplishments are truly outstanding and deserving of our sincere 
appreciation. When I was Chairman of the County Board, we often joked 
when retirement announcements like this came before the Board that we 
should not allow such talented and dedicated staff to leave public 
service, and I certainly wish that was the case here.
   I wish Merni the best of luck in her retirement, and I ask my 
colleagues in the House to join me in expressing our appreciation for 
her long and fruitful service to the residents of Fairfax County and 
the National Capital Region.

                          ____________________



